Announce the new envvar policy. (#140)
kubewarden/kubewarden.io: content/blog/2022/10/envvar-policy.md

---
title: Enforcing compliance in your environment variables
authors:
- José Guilherme Vanz
date: 2022-11-01
---

> We're glad to present to Kubewarden users the new [environment-variable-policy](https://github.com/kubewarden/environment-variable-policy) policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're glad to present to Kubewarden users the new [environment-variable-policy](https://github.com/kubewarden/environment-variable-policy).
```
I think it removes repetion.

Signed-off-by: Víctor Cuadrado Juan <vcuadradojuan@suse.de>

It's able to inspect containers, init containers, and ephemeral containers, and restricts
their usage of environment variables by checking their names and values defined under the
containers' [`env[*]`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.22/#envvar-v1-core).
As always, the policy can be found in [Github](https://github.com/kubewarden/environment-variable-policy)
and all the  artifacts, including the BOM files, are signed with Sigstore

### What is so useful about the new environment-variable policy?

> The recent added policy https://github.com/kubewarden/env-variable-secrets-scanner-policy allow users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The recent added [env-variable-secrets-scanner-policy](https://github.com/kubewarden/env-variable-secrets-scanner-policy) allow users
```

To remove repetition.

Signed-off-by: Víctor Cuadrado Juan <vcuadradojuan@suse.de>

to check if there are some leaked sensitive data in the environment variables. However, until the
environment-variable-policy there were no way to check other environment variables aspects.

> This is fixed now. In this new policy users can validate which variables name and values their

Reviewer 2: I don't **personally** like the "this is fixed now" and the way we get there. I would rephrase it be something like:

```
This policy complements the recently released <link to secret scanner blog post> policy. Both policies focus on validating the environment values provided to Kubernetes Pod objects.

In this new policy, users can validate...
```

> resources should have. For that, the policy gives 4 rule operator to control the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
resources should have. For that, the policy gives 4 rule operators to control the
```

Signed-off-by: Víctor Cuadrado Juan <vcuadradojuan@suse.de>

Reviewer 2: I would also use `four` instead of `4`

environment variable defined in the containers. They are:

- `anyIn`: Works as a deny list of your usage of volumes. It checks if any of the `environmentVariables` are in the Pod/Workload resource:
    ```yaml
settings:
  rules:
    - reject: anyIn
      environmentVariables:
        - name: "envvar1"
        - name: "envvar2"

>     ```

Reviewer 2: I was skeptical about having unordered lists entries with nested code blocks. I tried to render the document locally and it looks bad/broken:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22728/197477832-aaa53305-e21c-4efc-9b6b-452a75b150b2.png)

I propose the following approach:

* Turn each bullet point into a header 2
* Inside of each section provide:
   * Explanation of what the rule (`anyIn`, `anyNotIn`, ... ) does. This is currently written after the `:`
   * Code block as
   * An example of that specific setting

Reviewer 3: It is broken because there is a blank space before ` ```yaml`. If this space is removed the rendering is correct (see image attached) However, I would also be ok with converting each bullet point into a header 2 as flavio suggested.
![Screenshot from 2022-10-24 11-55-09](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6781025/197501181-df669703-1dee-4e07-98f9-379e28959173.png)

- `anyNotIn`: Works as an allow list. Checks if any of the `environmentVariables` are not in the Pod/Workload resource:
    ```yaml
settings:
  rules:
    - reject: anyNotIn
      environmentVariables:
        - name: "envvar2"
          value: "envvar2_value"
        - name: "envvar3"
    ```
- `allAreUsed`: The container cannot use all listed volumes at once. Checks if all of the `environmentVariables` are in the Pod/Workload resource:
    ```yaml
settings:
  rules:
    - reject: allAreUsed
      environmentVariables:
        - name: "envvar2"

>           value: ""

Reviewer: what is the behaviour when the value is `""`?

Reviewer 2: I don't like to explain this operator by using just one value, which is also a corner case. I would use something more "traditional", like it has been done inside of the other values.

I also think it would be worth to mention both here **and** in the policy README + metadata how `""` is being handled.

    ```

- `notAllAreUsed`: The container can use all listed volumes at once, but only one of them. Checks if all of the `environmentVariables` are not in the Pod/Workload resource:
```yaml
settings:
  rules:
    - reject: notAllAreUsed
      environmentVariables:
        - name: "envvar3"
          value: "envvar3_value"
        - name: "envvar4"
          value: "envvar4_value"
    ```

> The user is allow to define multiple rules in the policy settings. The resource must be approved by all of them in order to be accepted into the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user is allowed to define multiple rules in the policy settings. The resource must be approved by all of them in order to be accepted into the cluster.
```

Signed-off-by: Víctor Cuadrado Juan <vcuadradojuan@suse.de>

### An example

> Let's see how users can enforce that their resource have all minium set of required environment variable. For that, it possible to use the `allAreUsed` operator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's see how users can enforce that their resources have a minimum set of required environment variables. For that, it's possible to use the `allAreUsed` operator:
```

Signed-off-by: Víctor Cuadrado Juan <vcuadradojuan@suse.de>

```yaml
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: policies.kubewarden.io/v1
kind: ClusterAdmissionPolicy
metadata:
  name: environment-variable-policy
spec:

>   module: ghcr.io/kubewarden/policies/environment-variable-policy:latest

Reviewer: I suppose we should use a version tag for the policy.

  mutating: false
  rules:
  - apiGroups: [""]
    apiVersions: ["v1"]
    resources: ["pods", "deployments", "replicasets", "daemonsets", "replicationcontrollers", "jobs", "cronjobs"]
    operations:
    - CREATE
    - UPDATE
	settings:
	  rules:
	    - reject: anyIn
	      environmentVariables:
	        - name: "myenvvar"
                  value: "myvalue"

> 	        - name: "myenvvar2"

Reviewer: on review, it displays as tabs, instead of spaces. Maybe is worth it to use spaces, in case people copy-paste and have a different tab setting or something.

Reviewer 3: copy and paste doesn't work. This is the error I see:
```
error: error parsing STDIN: error converting YAML to JSON: yaml: line 15: found a tab character that violates indentation
```

                  value: "myvalue2"

EOF
```

With the above policy only resources that have **all** the variables defined in the `environmentVariables` field will be allowed.

Now try to deploy a resource that violate that rule:

```console
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: nginx-deployment
  labels:
    app: nginx
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: template-nginx
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: template-nginx
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: nginx
        image: nginx:1.14.2
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
        env:
          - name: myenvvar
            value: "myvalue"
EOF
```

> 

Reviewer 3: It would be nice to see the rejection error message here

---

> title: Enforcing compliance in your environment variables

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Enforcing compliance of container's environment variables
```

authors:
- José Guilherme Vanz
date: 2022-11-01
---

We're glad to present to Kubewarden users the new [environment-variable-policy](https://github.com/kubewarden/environment-variable-policy). It's able to inspect containers, init containers, and ephemeral containers, and restricts their usage of environment variables by checking their names and values defined under the containers' [`env[*]`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.22/#envvar-v1-core).

> As always, the policy can be found in [Github](https://github.com/kubewarden/environment-variable-policy) and all the  artifacts, including the BOM files, are signed with Sigstore.

Reviewer 2: I would replace the GitHub link with a link to ArtifactHub, right to the policy page

## What is so useful about the new environment-variable policy?

> This policy complements the recently released  [env-variable-secrets-scanner](https://www.kubewarden.io/blog/2022/10/env-var-secrets/) policy. Both policies focus on validating the environment values provided to Kubernetes Pod objects. In this new policy, users can validate which variables name and values their resources should have. For that, the policy gives four rule operators to control the environment variable defined in the containers. They are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This policy complements the recently released [env-variable-secrets-scanner](https://www.kubewarden.io/blog/2022/10/env-var-secrets/) policy. Both policies focus on validating the environment values provided to Kubernetes Pod objects. In this new policy, users can validate which variables name and values their resources can have.

The policy controls the environment variable defined in the containers using these four operators:
```

### anyIn

> `anyIn` works as a deny list of your usage of volumes. It checks if any of the `environmentVariables` are in the Pod/Workload resource:

Reviewer 2: There's a copy-paste leftover: "volumes".

nitpicking: add an empty line between this paragraph and the code bloc please

```yaml
settings:
  rules:
    - reject: anyIn
      environmentVariables:
        - name: "envvar1"
        - name: "envvar2"
```

### anyNotIn

`anyNotIn` works as an allow list. Checks if any of the `environmentVariables` are not in the Pod/Workload resource:

```yaml
settings:
  rules:
    - reject: anyNotIn
      environmentVariables:
        - name: "envvar2"
          value: "envvar2_value"
        - name: "envvar3"
```

### allAreUsed

`allAreUsed` the container cannot use all listed volumes at once. Checks if all of the `environmentVariables` are in the Pod/Workload resource:

```yaml
settings:
  rules:
    - reject: allAreUsed
      environmentVariables:
        - name: "envvar2"
          value: ""
```

### notAllAreUsed

> `notAllAreUsed` the container can use all listed volumes at once, but only one of them. Checks if all of the `environmentVariables` are not in the Pod/Workload resource

Reviewer 2: Again, a leftover from the other article: `volumes`

```yaml
settings:
  rules:
    - reject: notAllAreUsed
      environmentVariables:
        - name: "envvar3"
          value: "envvar3_value"
        - name: "envvar4"
          value: "envvar4_value"
```

> 
> The user is allowed to define multiple rules in the policy settings. The resource must be approved by all of them in order to be accepted into the cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Using multiple rules

The user is allowed to define multiple rules in the policy settings. The resource must be approved by all of them in order to be accepted into the cluster.
```

This is worth to be highlighted inside of a dedicated chapter, otherwise it looks like this information is specific to the `notAllAreUsed` rule.

> ## An example

Reviewer 2: Can we move that example right into the `allAreUsed` section and add similar ones for each rule?

I understand this would grow the article a lot, maybe we can - for the yet to be written examples - use something like that:

> For example, given the following configuration:
> 
> ```yaml
> settings:
>   rules:
>     - reject: anyIn
>       environmentVariables:
>         - name: "foo"
>           value: "bar"
>         - name: "foo2"
>           value: "bar2"
> ```
> 
> The following Pod would be rejected:
> 
> ```yaml
> apiVersion: v1
> kind: Pod
> metadata:
>   name: nginx
>   spec:
>     containers:
>     - name: nginx
>       image: nginx:1.14.2
>       ports:
>       - containerPort: 80
>       env:
>         - name: "foo"
>           value: "bar"
> ```

Some notes about that:

  * Save space by not showing `kubectl` invocations
  * Save space by showing only the settings of the policy, not the whole `ClusterAdmissionPolicy` definition
  * Save space by showing just the `Pod` definition, which is shorter than `Deployment` or other things

It's however nice to show that the policy can work also on `Deployment` resources, hence do not overwrite the current example.

    - UPDATE
  settings:
    rules:
      - reject: anyIn
        environmentVariables:
          - name: "foo"
            value: "bar"
          - name: "foo2"
            value: "bar2"

EOF
```

With the above policy only resources that have **all** the variables defined in the `environmentVariables` field will be allowed.

Now try to deploy a resource that violates that rule:

```console
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: nginx-deployment
  labels:
    app: nginx
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: template-nginx
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: template-nginx
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: nginx
        image: nginx:1.14.2
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
        env:
          - name: "foo"
            value: "bar"
EOF
# the following error message should be updated after https://github.com/kubewarden/environment-variable-policy/pull/9
Error from server: error when creating "deployment.yaml": admission webhook "clusterwide-environment-variable-policy.kubewarden.admission" denied the request: Resource misses at least one environment variable from the rule.
```

> Try it out!

Reviewer 2: Now that we have multiple sections we have to create a dedicated one for the closing words.

Maybe something like "Call to action", "Summary" or something similar...

```md
## Summary

We hope this article provided you a nice overview about the potential use cases of this policy and how to use it.
Give it a try and, as usual....
```

---
title: Enforcing compliance of container's environment variables
authors:
- José Guilherme Vanz
date: 2022-10-25
---

> We're glad to present to Kubewarden users the new [environment-variable-policy](https://github.com/kubewarden/environment-variable-policy). It's able to inspect containers, init containers, and ephemeral containers, and restricts their usage of environment variables by checking their names and values defined under the containers' [`env[*]`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.22/#envvar-v1-core).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We're glad to present the new [environment-variable-policy](https://github.com/kubewarden/environment-variable-policy) to Kubewarden users. With this policy, you will now be able to inspect init containers and ephemeral containers. You can also restrict their usage by reviewing the names and values defined under the containers' [`env[*]`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.22/#envvar-v1-core) field.
```

As always, the policy can be found in [ArtifactHub](https://artifacthub.io/packages/kubewarden/environment-variable-policy/environment-variable-policy) and all the [artifacts](https://github.com/kubewarden/environment-variable-policy/releases), including the BOM files, are signed with Sigstore.

## What is so useful about the new environment-variable policy?

This policy complements the recently released [env-variable-secrets-scanner](https://www.kubewarden.io/blog/2022/10/env-var-secrets/) policy. Both policies focus on validating the environment values provided to Kubernetes Pod objects. In this new policy, users can validate which variables name and values their resources can have.

> The policy controls the environment variable defined in the containers using these four operators:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The policy controls the environment variable defined in the containers using the four operators described in the next sections.
```

        - name: "foo2"
          value: "bar2"
```

### allAreUsed

`allAreUsed` the container cannot use all listed environment variables at once. Checks if all of the `environmentVariables` are in the Pod/Workload resource:

For example, given the following configuration:

```yaml
settings:
  rules:
    - reject: allAreUsed
      environmentVariables:
        - name: "foo"
          value: "bar"
        - name: "foo2"
          value: "bar2"
        - name: "foo3"
          value: "bar3"
```

The following Pod would be rejected:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: nginx
spec:
  containers:
    - name: nginx
      image: nginx:1.14.2
      ports:
      - containerPort: 80
      env:
        - name: "foo"
          value: "bar"
        - name: "foo2"
          value: "bar2"
        - name: "foo3"
          value: "bar3"
```

But the next one would be accepted:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: nginx
spec:
  containers:
    - name: nginx
      image: nginx:1.14.2
      ports:
      - containerPort: 80
      env:
        - name: "foo"
          value: "bar"
        - name: "foo3"
          value: "bar3"
```

### notAllAreUsed

> `notAllAreUsed` the container can use all listed environment variables at once, but only one of them. Checks if all of the `environmentVariables` are not in the Pod/Workload resource

Reviewer 4: This is confusing phrasing. I've suggested something. Hopefully that doesn't alter the meaning.

```suggestion
`notAllAreUsed` the container can use all listed environment variables at once, but only one at a time. Check if all of the `environmentVariables` are not in the Pod/Workload resource
```

Author: I've changes the text trying to be more clear. Please, let me know if it makes more sense to you.

For example, given the following configuration:

```yaml
settings:
  rules:
    - reject: notAllAreUsed
      environmentVariables:
        - name: "foo"
          value: "bar"
        - name: "foo2"
          value: "bar2"
```

The following Pod would be rejected:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: nginx
  spec:
    containers:
    - name: nginx
      image: nginx:1.14.2
      ports:
      - containerPort: 80
      env:
        - name: "foo"
          value: "bar"
```

But the next one would be accepted:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: nginx
spec:
  containers:
    - name: nginx
      image: nginx:1.14.2
      ports:
      - containerPort: 80
      env:
        - name: "foo"
          value: "bar"
        - name: "foo2"
          value: "bar2"
```

## Using multiple rules

> The user is allowed to define multiple rules in the policy settings. The resource must be approved by all of them in order to be accepted into the cluster.

Reviewer 2: Can you add an example of that? This can be particularly tricky to understand

Author: Done

  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: template-nginx
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: template-nginx
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: nginx
        image: nginx:1.14.2
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
        env:
          - name: "foo3"
            value: "bar3"
          - name: "foo4"
            value: "bar4"
EOF
Error from server: error when creating "STDIN": admission webhook "clusterwide-environment-variable-policy.kubewarden.admission" denied the request: Resource cannot have all the environment variables from the rule defined.
```

But when we try to deploy a resource that respects both rules, it will be created with no issues:

```console
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: nginx-deployment
  labels:
    app: nginx
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: template-nginx
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: template-nginx
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: nginx
        image: nginx:1.14.2
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
        env:
          - name: "foo3"
            value: "bar3"
EOF
deployment.apps/nginx-deployment created
```

> ## A use case example

Author: As I've added a pretty complete example of the multiple rules in use. I decided to change this title as well. I did not remove the section completely because I think many examples help to understand what the policy is able of.

Reviewer 2: I like it, thanks
